What are your greatest strengths?
It's a big question.
And for many of us, it's not always easy to answer.
Sometimes it's hard to pinpoint where we stand out.
So how can you gain some clarity?
First, let's look at the benefits of assessing
and leveraging your strengths.
By taking the time to understand your strengths,
you take the time to understand yourself.
And that leads to several benefits.
First, it fosters a fulfilling career.
If you go down a path of weakness,
your job will feel like an uphill battle.
Understand your strengths, however,
and you can work with those abilities
and achieve greater success.
Second, knowing your strengths increases confidence.
Instead of getting frustrated about what you can't do,
you'll come to appreciate what you can do.
Third, it promotes greater engagement.
By playing to your strengths,
your time will yield greater rewards.
And that increases your sense of happiness
and workplace wellbeing.
Finally, it improves your performance.
After all, high performers aren't void of weakness.
What sets them apart is that they use their strengths
rather than their shortcomings to propel their work.
So how can you uncover your strengths?
It starts with some self reflection.
You'll need to consider how you see yourself
as well as how others see you.
To discover your strengths, answer five questions.
First, what do you know?
Reflect on what you've learned thus far in your career.
Consider your education, training, and work experience.
Second, where have you excelled?
What are some of your biggest wins
and what strengths helped you get there?
For example, maybe you're creative
which once helped you devise an original
wildly successful campaign idea.
Third, what comes naturally?
Consider where you feel the least amount of friction
to get started, or to keep going.
What tasks just seem to flow smoothly
and promote an "I've got this" attitude?
Now that you've looked inward,
let's move on to the final two questions.
Paying close attention to what separates you from the pack.
The fourth question to ask, what separates you from others?
In a room full of people,
how do you tend to shine the brightest?
For example, are you known for being especially speedy,
but also accurate?
Finally, how do others see you?
Think about the feedback you've received in the past.
What strengths have your managers and colleagues mentioned?
Also, consider what favors others tend to ask of you.
For example, maybe you're the one people come to
for design tips, research advice, or tech knowledge.
Your strengths are what make you stand out.
Once you understand them, you can then leverage them
to your advantage.
So how's that done?
To leverage your strengths,
concentrate on two areas.
First, reflect on what you're currently doing.
At the end of each workday, ask yourself,
what strengths did I use today?
How did I use them?
And what are some missed opportunities.
Be specific as you consider what's working and what isn't.
Then consider how you can redesign your habits
to utilize and build on your top talents.
Ask yourself, based on my reflections,
what should I do more of?
And how can I better play to my strengths?
The actions you take don't need to be revolutionary.
The trick is to seek the opportunities you need
rather than hoping they fall into your lap.
That will allow you to use those strengths
and further nurture your skills.
Your strengths give insight into who you are as a person.
By taking the time to understand and leverage them,
you can create a more fulfilling and rewarding career.
So, commit to the self reflection
and continue to redesign your habits.
That way, you can practice, improve,
and leverage your strengths to your advantage.